README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/intekhabrizvi/Codeigniter-mongo-library.svg?branch=unitesting)](https://travis-ci.org/intekhabrizvi/Codeigniter-mongo-library)
=======
CIMongo - MongoDB Library for Codeigniter
=======

This library help you to use perform MongoDB based queries just like active record in CodeIgniter.

This library support
* Write Concern and Journal
* Read Preference
* Aggregation Framework
* Query Profiling

Wiki and how-to can be found here http://intekhabrizvi.github.io/mongodb-library-for-codeigniter.html 

For Code Unitesting use branch named `unitesting`
# Methods

## Insert Method
* `insert` Insert a new document into a collection
* `batch_insert` Insert multiple new documents into a collection

## Select Method
* `select` Get select fields from returned documents
* `where` OR `get_where` Where section of the query
* `where_in` Where something is in an array of something
* `where_in_all` Where something is in all of an array of * something
* `where_not_in` Where something is not in array of something
* `where_or` Where something is based on or
* `where_gt` Where something is greater than something
* `where_gte` Where something is greater than or equal to something
* `where_lt` Where something is less than something
* `where_lte` Where something is less than or equal to something
* `where_between` Where something is in between to something
* `where_between_ne` Where something is in between and but not equal to something
* `where_ne` Where something is not equal to something
* `like` Where something is search by like query
* `order_by` Order the results
* `limit` OR `offset` Limit the number of returned results
* `count` Document Count based on where query
* `distinct` Retrieve a list of distinct values for the given key across a single collection
* `find_one` Retrieve single document from collection

## Update Method
* `set` Sets a field to a value
* `unset_field` Unsets a field
* `addtoset` Adds a value to an array if doesn't exist
* `push` Pushes a value into an array field
* `pop` Pops a value from an array field
* `pull` Removes an array by the value of a field
* `rename_field` Rename a field
* `inc` Increments the value of a field
* `mul` Multiple the value of a field
* `max` Updates the value of the field to a specified value if the specified value is greater than the current value of the field
* `min` Updates the value of the field to a specified value if the specified value is less than the current value of the field.
* `update` Update a single document in a collection
* `update_all` Update all documents in a collection

## Delete Method
* `delete` Delete a single document in a collection
* `delete_all` Delete all documents in a collection

## Aggregation Method
* `aggregate` Perform aggregation query on document

## Profiling Methods
* `output_benchmark` return complete explain data for all the find based query performed

## Index Method
* `add_index` Create a new index on collection
* `remove_index` Remove index from collection
* `list_indexes` Show all index created on collections

## DB Method
* `switch_db` Switch to a different database
* `drop_db` Drops a database
* `drop_collection` Drops a collection
* `command` Perform MongoDB command

## Extra Helper
* `date` Create or convert date to MongoDB based Date

## License 
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License.
Codes are provided AS IS basis, i am not responsible for anything.

Commit message:

Pointed to latest library to support mongodb-1.5.x extension

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/intekhabrizvi/Codeigniter-mongo-library.svg?branch=unitesting)](https://travis-ci.org/intekhabrizvi/Codeigniter-mongo-library)
=======
CIMongo - MongoDB Library for Codeigniter (Legacy)
=======
For PHP7+, Codeigniter3+ and mongodb-1.5-x php extension support, use the latest library available at https://github.com/intekhabrizvi/codeigniter-mongodb-library
=======

This library help you to use perform MongoDB based queries just like active record in CodeIgniter.

This library support
* Write Concern and Journal
* Read Preference
* Aggregation Framework
* Query Profiling

Wiki and how-to can be found here http://intekhabrizvi.github.io/mongodb-library-for-codeigniter.html 

For Code Unitesting use branch named `unitesting`
# Methods

## Insert Method
* `insert` Insert a new document into a collection
* `batch_insert` Insert multiple new documents into a collection

## Select Method
* `select` Get select fields from returned documents
* `where` OR `get_where` Where section of the query
* `where_in` Where something is in an array of something
* `where_in_all` Where something is in all of an array of * something
* `where_not_in` Where something is not in array of something
* `where_or` Where something is based on or
* `where_gt` Where something is greater than something
* `where_gte` Where something is greater than or equal to something
* `where_lt` Where something is less than something
* `where_lte` Where something is less than or equal to something
* `where_between` Where something is in between to something
* `where_between_ne` Where something is in between and but not equal to something
* `where_ne` Where something is not equal to something
* `like` Where something is search by like query
* `order_by` Order the results
* `limit` OR `offset` Limit the number of returned results
* `count` Document Count based on where query
* `distinct` Retrieve a list of distinct values for the given key across a single collection
* `find_one` Retrieve single document from collection

## Update Method
* `set` Sets a field to a value
* `unset_field` Unsets a field
* `addtoset` Adds a value to an array if doesn't exist
* `push` Pushes a value into an array field
* `pop` Pops a value from an array field
* `pull` Removes an array by the value of a field
* `rename_field` Rename a field
* `inc` Increments the value of a field
* `mul` Multiple the value of a field
* `max` Updates the value of the field to a specified value if the specified value is greater than the current value of the field
* `min` Updates the value of the field to a specified value if the specified value is less than the current value of the field.
* `update` Update a single document in a collection
* `update_all` Update all documents in a collection

## Delete Method
* `delete` Delete a single document in a collection
* `delete_all` Delete all documents in a collection

## Aggregation Method
* `aggregate` Perform aggregation query on document

## Profiling Methods
* `output_benchmark` return complete explain data for all the find based query performed

## Index Method
* `add_index` Create a new index on collection
* `remove_index` Remove index from collection
* `list_indexes` Show all index created on collections

## DB Method
* `switch_db` Switch to a different database
* `drop_db` Drops a database
* `drop_collection` Drops a collection
* `command` Perform MongoDB command

## Extra Helper
* `date` Create or convert date to MongoDB based Date

## License 
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License.
Codes are provided AS IS basis, i am not responsible for anything.
